.TH SAMOYED-AXCALL 1

.SH NAME
samoyed-axcall \- Interactive outbound AX.25 connect client

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B samoyed-axcall
.RI [ options ]
.I MYCALL
.I TARGETCALL
.RI [ via
.IR DIGI ...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsamoyed-axcall\fR connects to a remote packet radio station over an
established AX.25 link and provides a line-mode interactive session.
It replaces the \fBaxcall\fR(1) / \fBcall\fR(1) utilities from
\fIax25-apps\fR for setups that no longer have the Linux kernel AX.25
socket layer available (removed in Linux 7.1).

\fBsamoyed-axcall\fR does not talk to the kernel directly.  Instead it
attaches to a running \fBsamoyed-direwolf\fR(1) instance via the AGW
TCP/IP API (default port 8000) and uses the TNC's connected-mode AX.25
state machine (LAPB) to establish and maintain the link.

Once connected, text typed on standard input is transmitted to the
remote station as AX.25 I-frames.  Data received from the remote
station is printed on standard output.  The session ends when either
side disconnects or the user enters a tilde escape command.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-hostname " " \fIHOST\fR
Hostname or IP address of the TNC running \fBsamoyed-direwolf\fR.
Default: \fBlocalhost\fR.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-port " " \fIPORT\fR
TCP port of the AGW interface.
Default: \fB8000\fR.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-channel " " \fICHAN\fR
Radio channel number (0-based) to use for the connection.
Default: \fB0\fR.
.TP
.BR \-T ", " \-\-idle " " \fISECS\fR
Disconnect automatically after \fISECS\fR seconds of no traffic in
either direction.  \fB0\fR (the default) disables the idle timer.
.TP
.BR \-\-help
Display usage information and exit.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I MYCALL
Your callsign, with optional SSID (e.g. \fBW1AW-3\fR).
It is registered with the TNC so that the TNC accepts inbound connect
requests to this callsign for the duration of the session.
.TP
.I TARGETCALL
Callsign of the remote station to connect to.
.TP
.RI [ via " " DIGI ...]
Optional digipeater path.
The keyword \fBvia\fR may be omitted; any extra arguments after
\fITARGETCALL\fR are treated as digipeater callsigns (up to 7).

.SH TILDE ESCAPES
Tilde escapes are recognised only when the tilde appears at the
beginning of an input line.  They are not transmitted to the remote
station.
.TP
.BR ~. " or " ~q
Disconnect from the remote station and exit.
.TP
.B ~?
Display tilde-escape help on standard error.
.TP
.B ~r
Reconnect (not yet implemented).

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Clean disconnect or connection closed by remote station.
.TP
.B 1
Connection failed, invalid arguments, or unrecoverable error.

.SH EXAMPLES
Connect to a BBS:
.PP
.B "    samoyed-axcall W1AW-3 W1XYZ-1"
.PP
Connect through a digipeater:
.PP
.B "    samoyed-axcall W1AW-3 W1XYZ-1 via W1REP"
.PP
Connect using a non-default channel and a 5-minute idle timeout:
.PP
.B "    samoyed-axcall -c 1 -T 300 W1AW-3 W1XYZ-1"
.PP
Connect to a TNC running on a different host:
.PP
.B "    samoyed-axcall -h 192.168.1.10 -p 8000 W1AW-3 W1XYZ-1"

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR samoyed-direwolf (1),
.BR samoyed-kissutil (1),
.BR samoyed-appserver (1)

.PP
The Samoyed documentation (including the guide \fIReplacing the Linux
kernel AX.25 stack\fR) is built from the \fIdocs/\fR directory of the
source tree.
